UGAHacks Project Documentation
Project Information
Project Title: MoneyMentor
Team Members: Vi Tran, Tri Vo, Torsa Rahman, My Ly
Tier Level: Intermediate
Project Description: We are trying to create a financial tracking app with an integrated AI
chatbot.
Friday
Goals:
Figure out which challenge we wanted to do and what level of project we want to
attempt. Pick a project website and what languages we want to use for it.
Familiarize ourselves with chatbot because we want to do it in our project and we have
never used it.
Start on the frontend and try to implement login and signup with authentication
Start setting up the server and database and connect it to the frontend
Progress:
We decided on the idea of doing the second Truist challenge. We decided to use react. Not all
the group members are experienced with it so it was a little bit hard. Torsa and My also started
on the frontend and were actually able to get more of the frontend done than we thought. Tri
make a chatbox for the website and Vi works on the backend. We got some of the skeleton
done with most of the pages we decided to tackle. We have a homepage that has general
account info like the balance and stuff and a chatbot and goals page. It's all empty but we have
it set up. Our group member My tried to figure out Figma and a good design template we can
use. Tri also set up github for the project.
Challenges:
1. Challenge 1: Sharing the project to Git Hub was a challenge from Vi’s computer. She set up
most of the basic files and stuff and connected it to the backend. For some reason when we
were trying to upload to github from vs code it was not working. She then shared through google
drive and when other members tried to open and run the project, it didn’t work because it wasnt
uploading the files in the folders and directories she had set up and random files were missing.
This caused a big delay in everyone being able to work on it.
- Solution (if found): No solution on Friday
2. Challenge 2: Trying to set up the backend and authentication with on JSX files was very
difficult for me (Torsa) and Tri because I have only ever done it with javascript (also have never
used react or JSX)and he mostly has experience in java and no web programming experience
so it was very challenging. The little bit we attempted on Friday was very confusing.
- Solution (if found): No solution on Friday
3. Challenge 3: Tri was able to figure out what chatbot was and watched YouTube videos and
stuff on it but couldn't figure out how to implement it into our code
- Solution (if found): No solution on Friday we were really tired.
Learning:
We learned a lot. I (Torsa) Learned a lot about react which is a language I haven't used before. I
used YouTube and chat GPT to learn how it works and the basics of it. It is similar to JavaScript
so that was good. Tri learned about Chatbot and how it works and how to train it which he had
never done before. My tried to learn about Figma and how we can integrate it into our code. Vi
did the frontend skeleton and most of the backend and learned how to connect the chatbot to
the code we already have.
AI Usage (if any):
We used AI for most general questions instead of Google like learning how to react to what a
chatbot is and how it works. It was helpful because it could answer specific and personalized
questions better.
Tool used: Deepseek, VS Code, GitHub
Purpose: Learning about react and chatbot and the working environment
How it contributed to learning: I think it contributed to our learning significantly because of
how helpful it was with information. VS Code increases productivity with writing code. We use
Git as our version control tool.
Saturday
Goals:
Implement the frontend with content. Friday we mostly had just blank pages so we really
wanted to focus on having content on each page
Implement chatbot and also implement authentication.
Implement the backend of charts and graphs we have. Also, implement the backend of
everything in general
Progress:
My and Torsa were able to implement the frontend with content and fill all the pages we had with
some styles. We put in authentication. Tri got chatbot integrated, help Vi with some backend and
gave the chatbox some style. Vi allows the website to get access to the MongoDB and
authentication. Tri and Torsa wrote up the documentation for Friday and Saturday.
Challenges:
1. Challenge 1: We got chatbot integrated and then we accidentally did something and it no
longer worked. This was frustrating and took a lot of time to try to debug and figure out where
the problem was. We were having problems with the input box for the chatbot.
- Solution (if found): Tri got it to work eventually
2. Challenge 2: Implementing the backend was challenging and it just wasn’t working
sometimes and it was very frustrating.
- Solution (if found): We got some things implemented but a lot of it isn't implemented in the
backend.
3. Challenge 3: We gave up on trying to use Figma because it was asking for money
- Solution (if found): No solution. It was just annoying.
Learning:
We learned how to integrate the backend. Tri learned a lot about chatbot which is something we
never really used. My and Torsa learned how to develop frontend better. Vi now understands
how to use MongoDB.
AI Usage (if any): We used AI to get started with databases like MongoDB
Tool used: Deepseek, MongoDB
Purpose: Deepseek for learning about databases and MongoDB for storing user information
How it contributed to learning: It helped with learning how to implement MongoDB into our
code. MongoDB was used to store the login info of users.
Sunday
Goals:
Implement as much of the backend as possible with the time we have left
Make frontend prettier
Finish documentation
Progress:
We finished up the documentation together and submitted our project. Not much was done here
since everything was done before.
Challenges:
1. Challenge 1: Backend was still a problem. If we had a few more weeks we would be able to
figure it out. We tried to do as much as we could.
- Solution (if found): Implemented what we could.
Learning:
Learned how to write documentation and submit projects
AI Usage (if any):
Didnt really use ai on Sunday.
Tool used: Google Docs
Purpose: Writing the documentation
How it contributed to learning: Easier to edit the documentation
